Add a cluster chart and documentation of how to use it (#236)
presslabs/mysql-operator: docs/integrate-operator.md

toc: true
---

After cluster creation, you can update the provided secret with a new field named `DB_CONNECT_URL`
that contains a [DSN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_source_name) to connect to the writable
cluster endpoint. You can check the `_helper.tpl` file for more insights.

The MySQL operator provides 3 services to access the nodes:

 * `<cluster_name>-mysql-master` is the service that points to the master node and this endpoint
   should be used for writes. This service is usually used to construct the DSN.

 * `<cluster_name>-mysql` is the service that routes traffic to all the _healthy_ nodes from the
   cluster. You should use this endpoint for reads.

 * `<cluster_name>-mysql-nodes` is the service used internally to access nodes. You can use this
   service to access a specific node (e.g.
   `<cluster_name>-mysql-0.<cluster-name>-mysql-nodes.default`)

We use helm to deploy our application into Kubernetes, so we updated our charts to use the MySQL
operator to provide one cluster per application.

## Using Helm

Usually a cluster of MySQL is needed alongside with an application, that's why we provide a Helm

> chart to easy deploy a MySQL cluster. The chart can be found in `presslabs` chart repository and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
chart for easy deployment of a MySQL cluster. The chart can be found in `presslabs` chart repository and
```

installed like the operator. Below is illustrated how this chart can be integrated with your
application to provision a MySQL cluster.

### Add MySQL Cluster chart as dependency
In your chart add in `requirements.yaml` under `dependencies` section the following:
```yaml
dependencies:
  - name: mysql-cluster
    version: 0.1.0
    repository: https://presslabs.github.io/charts
    condition: mysql.enabled
    alias: mysql

```

Once dependencies are configured run `helm dependency update` to fetch related charts.

> For more information about a chart requirements can be found in the official

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More information about chart requirements can be found in the official
```

[documentation](https://docs.helm.sh/developing_charts/#managing-dependencies-with-requirements-yaml).

> ### Configure values.yaml file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure your chart's values.yaml file
```

> The cluster should be configured so you can do so by providing configuration values. A comprehensive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the cluster by providing values under the `mysql` key. A comprehensive
```

description can be found in the chart
[`values.yaml`](https://github.com/presslabs/mysql-operator/blob/master/hack/charts/mysql-cluster/values.yaml)
file.

> In your `values.yaml` under the `mysql` field configure mysql cluster, a simple example is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```yaml
mysql:
  enabled: true
  rootPassword: <secure>
  dbUser: <user name>
  dbPassword: <user password>
  dbDatabase: <app database>
```

> Also backup can be configure too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Use into your application
In your deployment add an environment variable that point to the `DB_CONNECT_URL` field from cluster

> secret named `{{ .Release.Name }}-db-secret`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
secret named `{{ include "mysql-cluster.secretName" . }}`.
```

For example in the `deployment.yaml`:
```yaml
spec:
  replicas: {{ .Values.replicaCount }}
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: {{ .Chart.Name }}
          ...
          env:
            - name: DB_CONNECT_URL
              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:

>                   name: {{ .Release.Name }}-db-secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                  name: {{ include "mysql-cluster.secretName" . }}
```
